Game Dev Jobs

1. Career Pathways
  - Game design
Game designers typically create the actual concept for a game. They come up with things like the story, 
the characters,the rules, and things similar. Game designers are the ones who do a little bit of everything but 
without them the game industry would be in shambles. They do essential testing and post-release things to make sure
that the games run and are within standard.
  - QA Game Tester
Game testers do exactly what they're called, they test games. When they do this they test on multiple different
platforms to make sure it works on everything the game is being released on. They look for bugs, glitches, and other
things that could affect the user experience. They work closely with developers in order to get these issues
fixed before the game gets released to the public. The biggest responsibility they have is to make sure they're
testing very throughly.
  - Game artist
Game artists create the visual aspects of the game. Their main responsibilities are to conceptualize things for the
game, create/model them, and work closely with the designers to make any changes needed. Game artists also work 
with the scenes, making sure the lighting works and doesn't look funky. 
  - Game audio 
Game audio is the sound within the game. They create the sounds that we know in some of our favorite games through
voice acting, sound effects, and music. Sometimes they have to record this stuff but some of it is free assests
on the internet if the company is small. They work on making sure the sounds work for the story/characters
and that the sound is implemented and that it works. 
  - Level designers
Level designers design the challenges and the surroundings the player will go through and see. They make it so the
player has some sort of push in the right direction. This can be through things like entry and exit points, or just
in the level design itself like a pathway. They work closely with the other members of the team to make sure
that everything they do correlates with the way the story needs to go. 
  - Narrative Designers
These designers create an actual story to the game. They help with integrating more storytelling aspects to a game,
this can include something like a quest, which can push the player into progressing further into the story. They 
build the world the player will explore and progress in. They help make sure the game is consistent, helping 
ensure that people will actually enjoy playing the game instead of being confused about the storyline. 
  - Indie developers 
Indie developers do it all, usually it is a team of about 1-5 people working on a smaller project. If there is one
person, then it is likely they do most, if not all, of the jobs listed above as well as the programming side of 
things. If there is more than one person, it is possible the jobs are split up between the group, there is most
likely someone who specializes in programming while another is better at narrative. Indie developers
do not get as much credit as some of the bigger companies because they usually do not create as big of games, 
except Silksong.




2. Game programming 
  - Physics Programmer 
The physics programmer takes the objects and makes them simulate real life. This can be seen in things like 
bumping into a barrel and it falling over instead of flying off into space. This is because of the physics 
programmer. They also help to debug and optimize so the game can run better and doesnt get laggy when something 
is knocked over. 
  - Graphics Programmer
They program the visual aspects of the game. They take care of things like the lighting and rendering to make sure
the game meets quality standards. These standards also help to make sure that the game can perform well on various
platforms. They work closely with a lot of the artists on the team to make sure that things are looking the
way they want and the way they are supposed to. 
  - AI Programmer
The AI programmer is the person who makes sure that NPCs function more like real people. They implement things like 
pathfinding so that the NPCs can walk around and go places instead of standing stationary throughout the players 
playtime. This also makes the NPCs react to their surroundings, an example of this can be in GTA VI when you run 
towards someone and they fling their hands up and scream. 
  - Gameplay Programmer
They create the core code that will implement the most important features of the game. This is what the players
play the game for, the things like dialogue and object manipulation or even just running around and exploring. They
are extremely important to the debugging process since they contribute to it a lot. They work close with the 
designers as well as the other programmers to make sure that things are working like they should be. 
  - Animation Programmer
Develop the systems and code that make the characters move within the world. They work really closely with the 
animators to make sure that the movements don't look funny, i.e. an arm walking on the ground instead of the leg.
They usually try to run efficient code that won't cause optimization problems, they try to make sure that the 
game performance is top tier before moving on. 
  - Engine Programmer
These programmers are the ones who develop a lot of the technology that goes into game development 
They are usually the ones who maintaina and update the code once the game is actually published, they also tend 
to update and implement the features within the engine that helps run the game. They also help with things like 
physics and rendering, both very important processes within the development of a game. 
